Flow tutorial 2021 (#680)
vaadin/docs: articles/flow/tutorials/in-depth-course/database-access.adoc

        if (stringFilter == null || stringFilter.isEmpty()) { // <3>
            return contactRepository.findAll();
        } else {
            return contactRepository.search(stringFilter);
        }
    }

    public long countContacts() {
        return contactRepository.count();
    }

    public void deleteContact(Contact contact) {
        contactRepository.delete(contact);
    }

    public void saveContact(Contact contact) {
        if (contact == null) { // <4>
            System.err.println("Contact is null. Are you sure you have connected your form to the application?");
            return;
        }
        contactRepository.save(contact);
    }

    public List<Company> findAllCompanies() {
        return companyRepository.findAll();
    }

    public List<Status> findAllStatuses(){
        return statusRepository.findAll();
    }
}
----
<1> The `@Service` annotation will make this a Spring-managed service that you can inject into your view.  
<2> Use Spring constructor injection to autowire the database repositories.
<3> Check if there is an active filter, return either all contacts or use the repository to filter based on the string. 

> <4> Service classes often include validation and other business rules before persisting data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Service classes often include validation and other business rules before making the data persistent. 
```
